                                                  March 8, 1996

MEMORANDUM TO:  Record
FROM:           Dennis A. Keyser -- W/NMC22
Subject:        Changes to OI/SSI-Data Preprocessor
                (July 12, 1995 Version -- UPDATE # 4)

The July 12, 1995 version of the data preprocessor program
(PREPDATA) was updated for the fourth time.  UPDATE #4 was
implemented on 1200 UTC 27 March 1996 on the CRAY (GLOBAL, ETA
versions).  All changes now affect only OBUFR = TRUE switch. 
Except where noted, the changes below affect both the GLOBAL and
ETA models.

*********************  U P D A T E   # 4  ***********************


I.  SPECIFIC OPERATIONAL CHANGES

   A. CHANGES TO ALL DATA TYPE PROCESSING 

     1) ETA: The level pressure is now stored in the NOBS array
as ten times the nearest integer of the pressure.  This always
results in a zero for the tenths value.  Prior to this, the
nearest integer of the pressure multiplied by ten was stored in
the NOBS array.  The value in the NOBS array is subsequently
encoded in BUFR.  This temporary fix will allow the REGIONAL
BUFR/PREPDA level pressure data to be identical to its value in
the old REGIONAL PREPDA format when it is converted back to this
format in the first step of the FERR program.  The old PREPDA
format stores only whole pressure; the BUFR/PREPDA encodes
pressure times ten.


  B. CHANGES TO UPPER-AIR DATA PROCESSING 

     1) ETA: Several temporary changes are made in the REGIONAL
BUFR/PREPDA processing of upper-air data to allow the REGIONAL
BUFR/PREPDA data to appear more like that in the old REGIONAL
PREPDA output.  The latter format is what is expected by the ETA
FERR and OI-analysis codes.  Specific changes are:
          a) The deepened temperature is set to missing in the
profile if the temperature has a bad quality marker.
          b) The surface level height (elevation) quality marker
is set to good (1) rather than 6 (neutral).
          c) Interpolated or calculated data on levels where the
data are missing or bad can now get a good (1) quality marker if
the data on both spanning levels have a good quality marker. 
Before, such data would receive a neutral (6) quality marker.


          d) The check for duplicate pressure or height levels is
now performed in the same way as for the old REGIONAL PREPDA
processing.
          e) The quality markers for wind and deepened data
generated on levels where the data are missing or bad are now
determined in the same way as for the old REGIONAL PREPDA
processing.
          f) The test for determining a PIAL report is now
performed in the same way as for the old REGIONAL PREPDA
processing.     
          g) The test for the last (highest) "good" data level
(mass and wind) is now performed in the same way as for the old
REGIONAL PREPDA processing.      

     2) The report sequence number is now stored in NOBS(12) of
the header for all reports in the "ADPUPA" file.  It is
subsequently encoded into BUFR.


   C. CHANGES TO SURFACE DATA PROCESSING 

     1) Marine reports only: If the reported station pressure is
non-missing and originally has a neutral (6 or 7) quality marker,
then the sea-level pressure quality marker is transferred to the
station pressure if the sea-level pressure quality marker is 
keep (0) or purge (14).  Prior to this, the station pressure
quality marker remained neutral.

     2) All surface mass reports (land and marine): The height
(elevation) quality marker is now set to that of the station
pressure prior to storing the report in the NOBS array and
subsequently encoding the report into BUFR.  Prior to this, the
surface height always received a neutral (6) quality marker since
there is no reported quality marker for the elevation.

** - Change 1) above is needed because O.P.C. places a keep flag
'H' or a purge flag 'P' only on the sea-level pressure quality
marker in the ON29 SFCSHP file when it quality controls marine
pressure data.  The logic in PREPDATA is designed to look first
for a station pressure for all surface reports.  If the station
pressure is found, then it's value along with its quality marker
are passed into the NOBS array and subsequently encoded into
BUFR.  In this case, the sea-level pressure and its quality
marker are never used by PREPDATA, and the O.P.C. `H' and 'P'
quality markers are never honored.  In cases where the station
pressure is missing, the sea-level pressure and its quality
marker are transferred to the station pressure slot in the NOBS
array, provided the elevation is less than 7.5 meters.  In this
case the O.P.C. 'H' and 'P' quality marks are honored.  Change 1)
is not in effect for the O.P.C. corrected 'C' quality marker on
sea-level pressure.  The correction is applied only to the sea-
level pressure observation and not to the station pressure
observation.  In all such cases that I've examined, the station
pressure has been missing, so the good (1) quality marker
associated with the `C' is automatically transferred to the
station pressure, along with the corrected sea-level pressure
observation.

** - Change 2) above is needed because even with change 1), the
O.P.C. keep or purge flag on pressure is only written into the
pressure quality marker location.  The logic within subsequent
GLOBAL data processing programs (OICQBUFR, SSIANL), is designed
to "key" on the height quality marker in the processing of
surface mass reports (both land and marine).  The logic within
the subsequent ETA data processing program FERR likewise was
keying on the height quality marker to re-generate the mass-level
quality marker in the old PREPDA format.  (This was actually an
error in the FERR data transformation logic, which is being
corrected soon to always use the pressure quality marker as the 
level quality marker for all surface mass reports.)  The
exception in both cases is when the pressure has purge or bad
quality marker.  In this case the report is not used by either
analysis regardless of the other quality markers.  As a result,
only the O.P.C. purge quality marker would be honored by either
analysis without change 2).  The O.P.C. keep flag would never be
honored by the either analysis.  Actually, for all surface mass
data (land and marine), a keep, good, or suspect quality marker
on the pressure would not honored by either analysis without this
change. 


   D. CHANGES TO SATELLITE WIND DATA PROCESSING 

     1) GLOBAL (AVN/FNL) only: NESDIS GOES-8 and GOES-9 cloud
drift winds became operational at 18Z 21 March 1996 (with AVN run).

     2) ETA (EDAS/MESO) only: NESDIS GOES-8 and GOES-9 cloud
drift winds became operational at 12Z 27 March 1996 (with MESO
run).
